---
layout: page
title: IGAC ECR Virtual Conference 2023
description: IGAC ECR 2023, virtually 16 November 2023
img:
importance: 4
category: Conference
---

The IGAC ECR conference is held virtually on Gathertown. 

I attended virtually, presenting a poster which can be [downloaded here](https://vichawans.github.io/assets/pdf/IGAC-ECR-poster-v1.1.pdf).

The work describes how atmospheric oxidants such as ozone and hydroxyl radicals affect sulfate aerosol formation.

## In a nutshell 
Sulfate aerosols play a significant role in shaping the climate
by inducing cooling by directly reflecting sunlight and also by
modifying cloud properties. Sulfur dioxide (SO2) is an important
sulfate aerosol precursor with the largest sources coming from
anthropogenic activity. The oxidants that SO2 react with are
controlled by complex chemical processes.
In this work, we analysed the output from the UK’s Earth
System Model1 from oxidation processes to radiative effect to
tease out the effects of oxidants on aerosol and climate.

We show how ➊ OH, O3 and H2O2, which are the main SO2
oxidants response to O3 precursors and CH4 increases. ➋ SO2
oxidation follows SO2 emissions but is perturbed by oxidant
changes. SO2 + OH is the dominant oxidizing process and is
also the most sensitive to OH changes.
➌ Historical changes in aerosol size distribution is affected
by oxidant changes. ➍ Ultimately, historical changes in O3
precursors affect the aerosol abundance in the nucleation mode
and have a cooling effect through scattering but CH4 has a
warming effect by reducing aerosol cloud interaction.
